BREAKOUT GAME PLAN
Katherine Van Dyk (kmv10)

Breakout Variant:
One variant of breakout I found interesting was the Worms Breakout variant. I enjoyed more subtle features about this variant of breakout,
one being how the blocks faded into the background after they were hit. From the exercise done in lab, it seemed like the blocks/balls were solid images
and could not blend in with the background. I also found the number of power-ups to be a unique feature of the game. I hope to replicate the multi-ball
power-up, but plan to use 2 balls instead of the many balls that this variant included.  A power-up that I also found interesting was the 'explosion' 
that caused other blocks around it to disappear. Finally, I'd like to leverage the ideas of having a 'character' paddle and falling prizes from this 
version of breakout. 

'Ski' Breakout
I plan to make my breakout game winter themed. The theme will be expressed through the paddle, block arrangements, power-ups, and scene background. 

Levels:
I plan to implement three levels, with block positions generated by reading from a file. Each level will progressively get harder due to the
block arrangement, a decrease in paddle size, and an increase in ball speed. 

Level 1:
This level features blocks arranged in a horizontal fashion, with 4 rows of of single-hit and multi-hit blocks. Two power-ups, 
including getting an extra life and activating an extra ball, will be present.

Level 2:
The second level features a more intricate arrangement of blocks. The blocks will be arranged in a diamond shape. In the center of the diamond 
is the first bounce block, surrounded by multi-hit blocks, and then single-hit blocks. All three power-ups will be included in this level.

Level 3:
The third level will feature the most intricate arrangement of blocks. In the center of the screen is a snow-flake shaped arrangement of blocks. These blocks
will be a mixture of single-hit and multi-hit blocks. Surrounding the snowflake arrangement will be a rectangle of 4 bounce blocks. However, on the side 
of the rectangle facing the bottom, there will be gaps in the bounce blocks. This will increase difficulty, as the ball will bounce closer to the
bottom of the screen.

Block Types:
1. The first block is a single-hit block. This block will be white in color.
2. The second block is a multi-hit block. There will be varying levels of multi-hit blocks, and the number of hits will increase as the level increases.
The color of this block will be blue, and the darker the blue color, the more hits are required to destroy the block.
3. The third type is block is a 'bounce' block. This block is not destroyed when it is hit- instead the ball simply bounces off this block, which acts
as an obstacle. 

Power-ups:
When a block containing a power up is hit, the power up will fall from the block, and the paddle must catch the power up. Power up's are automatically 
used at the point when they intersect the paddle and, if applicable, last until the end of the level.
1. Extra Ball- This power up adds an extra ball into the game. The ball starts at the top center of the screen and falls vertically from the center.
The paddle is able to use this ball exactly the same way as the original ball. 
2. Extra Life- The second power up is an extra life. This power up is displayed by updating the tool bar. 
3. Paddle Upgrade- This power up makes the paddle (a skiier) increase in size. This increases the chance of the ball intersecting with the paddle.

Cheat Keys:
1. 'L' replenishes all lives.
2. 'R' is the reset key and replaces the ball and paddle to the center of the screen. Points and power-ups are also reset.
3. '1', '2', and '3' all reset the game to the respective level. 

Extra Feature:
I plan to implement falling snowballs. When a block that contains a snowball is hit, the paddle must avoid intersecting the snowball,
or a life is lost. This is a substantial addition since it involves adding an additional feature to a block, as well as an additional
way for the player to lose a life.

